[Music]
hello and welcome to the BBC good food
podcast with Tom courage I'm Orlando and
we're here today to talk about citing
ingredients cooking techniques and
general kitchen chat plus we have an
original Tom carriage recipe for you to
try out at home whether you're a
beginner or a budding chef hi and
welcome to this week's BBC good food
podcast with Tom carriage today we're
talking about old fashioned puddings
comfort food at its very best we have a
great Tom carrot recipe coming up for
you but before that Tom what puddings do
you remember from your childhood always
steamed steamed treacle puddings they're
like a golden syrup puddings delicious
though sort of those sponges that me mum
could sit boiling in you remember those
old pudding basins I do you don't see
him so much anymore like the China wants
me the cloth on the top sat Sunday
lunchtime sat there bubbling away from
about ten o'clock in the morning till
until then it when it was actual lunch
time that's what I remember from being
that and viennetta
there's something wonderful about a
steamed pudding bubbling on the hob I'm
a great fan of suet unite suet
absolutely love it I think it's
fantastic it gives rich it gives depth
it gives flavor it and it gives this
kind of a a real kind of solidity to so
many things like pastry of course but
also when you steam it it's delicious
vegetarian so any problems with that
because we use it in the Test Kitchen
and it seems to work perfectly well but
does it give the depth of flavor that
you're looking for
to be honest I've not used it so if I'm
going to use see where I do it because
it's about having beef to it in fact we
actually make our own at the restaurants
when we take we take beef fat and mince
it ourselves and use that so it's even
got more depth of flavor it's that very
hard so crackly kind of fat isn't it
though yeah and then you get it through
the mincer do you that's exactly that is
exactly that but then if it was I mean
if you were going to use um if you're
going to use it if I was looking for
doing a
friendly dish I wouldn't I would just do
the sponge without doing vegetarians
yeah because the sponge pose well
exactly perfectly well and any horrible
puddings at school most of us have the
kind of horror story that we remember
yeah I mean I mean we all talk about
blancmange don't we as being one of
those like bright pink school desserts
that always remember and going
it was pretty dodge however like when
you look back in junk it as well junkies
were pretty bad although I have worked
somewhere where we used to have drunk it
on the menu it was delicious so I think
it was probably more the execution
rather than the actual dish itself do
you know we have a lot of feedback from
our Twitter followers and they have a
real problem with pink school puddings
yeah they talk about our pink custard
something pink which what they could
were passed off as iced buns but were in
fact hot dog buns buns with a bit pink
icing and and sprinkles put on yeah I
remember them they also talked about
something called chocolate concrete
which is obviously cool amant gone a bit
yeah and then I worked with someone once
who had fond memories of Rollie pollie I
think it was Rolie Polie which they all
called matrons leg I love that sale when
I used to play rugby aerobic oh we
always knew a kebab like add Annika by
that was known as elephant leg very
similar sort of thing but they can of
course be wonderful I think with old
fashioned puddings we're really talking
about crumbles steamed puddings baked
puddings and a cobbler we've got a
recipe for a cobbler which is going to
delight our listeners coming up yeah but
just remind me of what a cobbler is I've
heard of one but I don't think I've ever
made wasn't kind of very similar to a
crumble in terms of you have that
beautiful stewed fruit base and you know
you can use any fruit that you like the
beautiful thing about crumbles and
cobblers is they are very British and
their seasonal when you use the British
fruit so in the summer time you can use
red berries and then as it goes through
into autumn and winter you using apples
and pears or
you know this is a bit of a cross over
so we're plum seizing this big ending
and the apples are starting that's it so
it's that stewed fruit base and then the
topping is similar to a
crumble except it's more like it's kind
of mixed with a little bit of milk and
it's you make pretty much I suppose like
dumplings I kind of this kind of like
baked to sweet dumplings that just
spread on the top so it's a bit more
robust than a crumble I'm looking
forward to enormous Lela yeah and it's
winking at me over there giving you a
little wavy hour and you mentioned that
they're a British thing I think they
they a particularly British thing or do
you encounter them in different parts of
the world you travel a lot so uses yeah
I think desserts change head like the
French I mean these desserts they don't
they don't transcend into Europe they're
not the sort of things happen there you
you have a lot more the French are much
more refined about what they do they
have a lot of really you know lovely
tarts they they put a lot of effort into
doing something special whereas here I
think in what we do here in Britain is
we we take big robust tastes and flavors
and we make them stunning they things
that sit alongside stews you know we are
very good we were you know we again
we're a northern European country that's
cold and you go well most of the time we
like beef stews and we like smoking and
pickling and curing and all of those
sort of things that keep us going
well the puddings kind of fit into that
bracket as well so they're all about
none of them are necessarily the
prettiest desserts but they are all
delicious and what they taste like there
they've got a reputation for being quite
heavy is there any way that we can
shoehorn them into a healthy diet just
on Sunday exactly on Sunday on Sunday
when you've been to church and you've
prayed for a healthy pudding but said
listen they're there about they are
listen they're gonna be high in sugars
they're gonna be high in carbohydrate
but they're also high in flavor and
there are ways that you can change them
about you can do you can cope with lower
calorie sugar alternatives you can use
you can use Greek yogurt you can use
their fat creme fraiche you can use all
of those sort of things but actually the
best way that these desserts are eaten
are as a treat as something spell
as you know puddings as pudding should
be but listen we don't have them every
weekend you don't have them every Sunday
every now and then you enjoy yourself
have a great pudding and don't have
seconds perhaps don't make make it for
eight when there are only four of you so
that you eat it all up
the following day what a good idea what
a good I've also thought of a good thing
a lot of them have got fruit in them so
there there's one of your five a day as
well yeah and you know what actually
healthy isn't always about the food that
you put in I know it is a lot of however
health is a mindset and something like
this makes you happy spending time with
people spending time with friends and
family having people over lunch cooking
if you enjoy it putting thing all these
sort of things together and then easy
something that you love makes you happy
that is healthy just not doing food like
this three times a day for every day
then that's unhealthy but actually the
mindset the happiness the warmth and it
gives you that is definitely healthy do
they go down one in your restaurants do
two old-fashioned puddings or or takes
on them yeah we do we do lots of kind of
a particularly and when it comes to the
set lunch we kind of think so we used to
have a junket on every now and that
comes in at Falls a lovely
you know those lighter things and lunch
times where you've taken that lovely
stewed fruit puree and mix that with
with whip double cream you know those
sort of things great british dessert so
that our lovely pudding sometimes but
I'm putting this green most people love
that I think some people hate it but
most people love it I think and one of
the best-selling dishes that we have
ever always on at the coach is steamed
sticky toffee pudding with beef suet
through it so it's beef suet sticky
toffee pudding and it's a massive seller
and people absolutely love it that's
meant to have been invented in Cumbria I
think it's late district thing yeah yeah
Cartmell yeah yeah and and they do it
beautifully
do you miniaturize the desserts so that
they and they're not too big yeah we do
for the restaurant so individuals come a
bit because if you wanted a souffle but
I wanted sticky toffee pudding you get
an individual portion of it rather than
cooking one big one definitely yeah I I
sometimes feel at the end of a meal that
I'd love to have a
but if it's too big it's just gonna
wreck my afternoon yeah you don't like a
little one really I think but that's
what you do probably yeah we try to make
sure that it's part of a three-course
meal not being over faced by this
massive pudding and I get why people
want big puddings in that but we just
try to make sure that it's the correct
portion size rather than it being too
huge that's a real art is it the pastry
chef who always makes all the desserts
in a restaurant I'm rather out of date
about how restaurants organized them
yeah or is it a mixture piece well
there's a there is a person on pastry
there is a pastry section and it may
swap out some places don't have pastry
chefs or such because they're quite a
specialist role but most chefs know how
to make good puddings most chefs should
be able to make sticky toffee pudding or
steamed suet pudding or a crumble or a
you know a creme brulee or something
like that most most good chefs will be
able to do that so then but the reality
is there's a pastry section and if
you're lucky enough you've got one of
those trained pastry chefs that know
what they're doing the scientific kind
of guys aren't they the pastry chefs
aren't they certainly different from the
rest of the brigade they are most
definitely different from the rest of
the brigade so the rest of the gate so I
am definitely a hot kitchen cook okay so
you work on touch and feel and instinct
and how each muscle breakup is different
and how much water content and isn't
vegetables as you're cooking it and you
have to move and flow with it whereas
pastry chefs are much more about
precision and understanding and exacting
recipes in there so they are slightly
they are different they also always have
blunt knives do they work different
hours as well no no they were at the
same time and they they leave at the
same time in all right let me finish
later because the dessert comes at the
end of the meal the dessert comes at the
end of the meal but the rest of the
brigade are cleaning the kitchen down
whilst they're still sending dessert to
it yes you arrived as a team and you
leave as a team right I also want to
hear about the guy who makes the bread
but we'll save that for another podcast
because I think that's gonna be a really
exciting thing to hear about they're
even more removed from society than the
pastry chefs they have even blunt or
knives and they're usually hovering
around in those kind of incubating
cupboard type places yeah and bread
proof yeah
being a baker is amazing it's a
brilliant brilliant skill that's one to
look forward to I think the other thing
that has come in from our Twitter
friends is they're obsessed with custard
people are obsessed with custard this
seems to be the necessary accompaniment
to a pudding where do you stand on
custard keen know what you mean where do
I stand - I like who doesn't like
custard I do hot cold ah I forgot to say
they don't like pink custard oh yeah no
I'm not up for pink custard but yeah hot
cold beautiful freshly cooked made with
eggs or even the powdered like you know
the powdered custody so as a kid I loved
that old bird's custard yeah that was
set in in a trifle cornflour in exact to
help the sense yeah exactly that
homemade custard has problems for the
home cook to make unless they've got
something that we both I know we both
like which is this thermometer yeah this
is your digital thermometer because you
need to take it to a certain temperature
don't you yes about 82 degrees and then
once a day attitude you hold it at 82 or
is it 82 mean job done and we can all 82
and keep whisking it take the pan off
the heat and keep whisking it for a
while and then pass it through a sieve
and leave it to cool you guys are always
passing Turing things through sibs it's
that way obviously you're using fresh
vanilla in your custard so you've gotta
get you gotta get the vanilla pod you
say the vanilla pod and reuse it not
once it's been in custard no but if we
do scrape it before and not you and just
use the seeds then that gets used in so
we always scrape it oh but the pod
itself might get infused into sugar or
to something else whereas if it's all it
gets scraped and the pod and everything
goes into the milk and cream that's
coming up to the boil to make the
custard part out and that's it gone but
the seeds are then still through they
pass through the because it's absolutely
tiny but um it's such a waste of a
vanilla pod when you think it's kind of
seed of an orchid or something marvelous
like that it seems throw them away I
know some people grind them up with
sugar have you done that to make a
strong vanilla sugar yeah yeah in few
sugar it goes really well is that sort
of a gray color or brown color or you
know just leave it in there and then
remove the pot from them so it's kind of
just infused its flavour into the sugar
granules
or you could blend it all up together
and then you put it on a tray then it
goes it's quite wet but then what you do
is you leave it on a tray above in a
warm place and let it read dry out again
and yeah you have this beautiful vanilla
sugar wonderful well a good reason to
make them whip up some custard yes what
do you think of them what'd you think of
tinned custard yeah some of its great I
mean some of that instant ready-made
custard is brilliant I mean it's fun I
mean listen we're not get it's not
rocket science serious it's cream and
it's vanilla and it's eggs and it's
delicious and so if someone's doing it
and the tin stuff if his stickies got
thickening agent in if it tastes guys
probably got cornflour and it was yeah
at the end of the world is it yeah I
think a listen I think it's great I
don't I haven't got a problem I wouldn't
serve it in a restaurant but I would
quite happily serve it to me murmurs she
came round for Sunday lunch and we've
made a crumble I think I think it's
still made in Devon they still have a
factory that makes tinned
Devon custard did you get all that
wonderful it goes all over the country
good good for Devon and you serve your
custard hot or cold or depends on the
dish depends on it so if it's a hot dish
I quite like a cold custard but if it's
a cold dish
I don't mind it being a warm custard do
you know what I mean so it varies it
varies it's it's an you know it's it's
it any cut it I don't care just get it
on yeah however there are options
there's also cream and there's ice cream
there would there be occasions when
you'd use those instead of custard yeah
I think kept pouring cream is quite nice
to be used over the top of if you've got
a very sweet sickly like over-the-top
golden syrup style steamed pudding
that's lovely to just do pouring cream
all that summer where if it's nice and
hot that's where I'd like the coldness
of ice cream the counterbalance of
temperature is delicious so a really
good vanilla ice cream with that would
be amazing
you know melting into it and you get a
kind of hot and cold thing going on in
you exactly not only just textural
difference but the temperature which is
really nice I'm getting very hungry now
but we have to wait because we have to
wait
semolina sago and tapioca are very very
divisive what do you think of those I
think if they're treated in the right
way they are delicious and it's about
getting the flavors into it that you
want to use it with and those are that's
where school dinners have been given a
bad name because they've just been it's
a cheap alternative or something that's
been whisked together boiled up served
on the side like kids it you just got
made bright pink
yeah just frog spawn was exactly horror
wasn't it yeah exactly but if you
actually infuse it with flavors that you
like whether it's spiced you know things
like cinnamon or mace go really nicely
with it Graham mix spice those sort of
things that they can really give this
beautiful flavored delicious dish you've
just got to make sure that textually you
get it right they have a very soft set
don't they some of them and there's a
jelly-like thing going on there which
troubles some people perhaps yeah but
they're absolutely and that's just the
natural starches that are coming out the
green like as if you're just stirring
rice or rice pudding it's very similar
to those like grainy starches that come
out so it's it would just be a case of
understanding what you're doing with it
and and not be scared off of what school
dinner used to be I'm not sure whether
you can still buy sago and tapioca in in
normal shops or whether it's now turned
into a specialist thing yeah I'm not
sure to be honest I have it if we
whenever we get it or whatever we use it
for we you we got it we order it from a
dry store supplier so I'm not sure I've
never looked for it in the supermarket
maybe next time I do me shopping I'll
have a little nurse try and get a bit of
combat going on yeah bring bright not
pink okay just say go and rice pudding
your skin on top man or love rice
pudding and not a big fan either skip
well again that depends right so I like
a chilled rice pudding absolutely
delicious cooked properly in there's two
bases I like the way of doing it with
pudding rice where you cook it for ages
but I quite like one way you can you
swap and do risotto rice so if you use
the borio rice that cooks quite quickly
cook it in 20 minutes and you've got
this lovely rich sweet flavored dinner
on the hall yet on the hob in milk in
milk yeah and milk and cream and all the
flavors that you put into a custard and
you don't pop or the
so you put the risotto rice straight in
with the milk and cream boil it and so
that keep stirring it keeps doing it
keeps doing it and all those lovely
flavors there and delicious and then I
think I you can caramelize the top with
a little bit of sugar and blowtorch it
and those sort of thing but but like set
Gong cold and a skin go on the top I
mean I'd eat it I mean I don't I I think
it's delicious I don't get people said
to go no no I wouldn't eat them I mean
why wouldn't you eat the skin yes milk
solids isn't it yeah and he's sort of
rather attractive tan Carla the skin
didn't it exactly it gives it this
lovely kind of warm caramelized taste to
it it's delicious
but when my mother used to make it in
the oven rice pudding it did cook the
rice it was quite nice though it was
nicer rice pudding but there was often a
kind of pooled of liquid and then the
brown skin on top so maybe she was happy
with that kind of the water of Texas
leave it to cook a little bit more and
and that kind of skin would have wrapper
and and joined dango closer to the rice
it's nicer baked rice pudding that nice
this got a very old-fashioned feel to it
and it's very sort of reassuring I'm
think you're right in saying that these
things give you a kind of emotional
benefit regardless of what they might
actually be doing for your day do to us
of an age where if you I think if you're
over 40 you remember those sorts of
dishes and they think that you think
they're amazing I don't know how many
kids today will have the same sort of
understanding of what those puddings are
because I don't think anyone's cooking
them anymore
try them out on your thumb no well I did
no it's just still a little bit young
with trifle I think that's still around
for a you know and that'll be around
forever that stood the test of time
however those more solid robust things
or things they're a little bit different
at that
I'd like the sago puddings there'll be
no kids there that recognize them
crumbles I get trifles will always be
there but steamed suet puddings how many
people actually make them at home how
many how many children today will have
that as childhood memories or are they
learning about different puddings are
they learning about baking again are
they
much more complicated desserts or things
that people are cooking at home it'd be
quite interesting to see well at school
they're probably not getting them at
school which was a main reason that a
lot of people hate them is because they
were badly cooked at school wrong and
well cooked at home kids are probably
eating tiramisu nowadays oh that's it
yeah of course
only sourdough sourdough bread and
butter pudding cross on yeah.that Sussex
pond pudding is a bit of a number isn't
it it's great though come on eh what a
beautiful are you quite sure what to do
with the lemon in the middle because it
is so such a hit of acidity and
bitterness isn't it do you actually eat
the lemon I know you're meant to yeah
chop it up yeah yeah yeah if you steam
it for long enough it should be so soft
and delicious and it goes everywhere the
marmalade ething going on exactly yeah
exactly that I love a Sussex plum
pudding I think it's great I think it is
we in fact we are looking at bringing
that back in one of the restaurants we
try it we're trying to perfect a way of
getting it done so it's amazing would
that be in a small version of it because
then the thing is a bit collosum when it
comes out with the whole lemon you can't
give anyone a whole lemon can you just
fruit alternatives to do with it so
little kumquat yeah maybe yeah exactly
kumquats or key limes or you know
something like that I've grown how do we
put our do we have a go at playing at
that we haven't got it right yet so I
can't say yes we've done that it's
amazing as an individual portion but
they are I think it's a great dessert
it's a very original isn't it very very
and wonderfully British it is but it's
very bizarre that it's got a lemon in it
because a lemon isn't British so you go
what hold on a minute and we're if we
come up with this no let's take
something citrus that makes you think of
the warm and the sunshine and makes you
think of holidays and maybe the Amalfi
Coast and everything that's incredible I
don't know what we'll do let's cover in
a load of suet cook it for ages and then
go oh yeah let's get this wonderful warm
outdoor ingredient and wrap it up in
sponge I love it I got hold of a
bergamot a couple of months ago and I
absolutely loved it it's so fragrant
it's great evening and
so unlike it of course it's the main
ingredient then flavoring for Earl Grey
tea but it's got that wonderful floral
quality yeah it's kind of they look like
big lines yeah like they look like big
lines but they've got they have got that
wonderful floor honest to it they have
that citrus kick but a big you know yeah
yes very special I knew someone who made
some marmalade from it and was laborious
ly taking the skin off getting rid of
the pith and taking the skin off it
seemed a bit of an ordeal and he got a
couple of jars at the end but he was
obviously very thrilled was it nice did
it was a marmalade I didn't get to eat
it he wasn't gonna give up give these
two jars away looking that long yeah
yeah maybe two of them a weekend I think
to make it Christmas pudding is another
great favorite of mine which is must be
the ultimate kind of gonji pudding
filled with everything that you can
possibly pack into it I mean I love it
I'm to make them for the restaurant yeah
we do we'll make Christmas puddings we
do those we and then we turn sometimes
we turn them into souffle sometimes
we'll turn them into moosie sometimes we
just serve them straight putting souffle
yeah just that you make a Christmas
pudding and then you cut it up into
little bits do you yeah blend that into
a pace and then you use that pace to
fold the egg whites into that you then
cook the souffle with so you've got this
beautiful risen light and airy Christmas
pudding laughs nine ten straight yeah
it's delicious it works really really
well it's a wonderful thing now I
absolutely adore Christmas pudding
although this Christmas just gone we had
17 people around my house for Christmas
and only half wanted Christmas pudding
it is one of those do you know what I
love it and some people and just really
not fans of it and it's because it's so
big dark strong powerful flavors that I
think some it does alienate people it's
like but they're the same people have
done at Christmas planning the same
people it don't like sprite yeah
then I'm not inviting him again I think
that American Americans would regard us
as they'd look at Christmas pudding is
something that landed from outer space
wouldn't they because it's an alien
piece of food and I know that the French
I lived in France for six years and they
had no idea at all
with what knoweth we were talking about
with this Christmas pudding and it's
such an odd-looking thing as well as
everything else pitch-black and steaming
and the light of your horse
yeah but that beautiful flavor I mean
it's just such a if it's had time to
mature it's a it's amazing you know a
really good thing with Christmas it's
great a Caesar this is a bit of a secret
thing but it's great the next day with a
full English breakfast black pudding or
so think that's exactly what it is if
you think of Christmas pudding right
this is why it's so lovely is a cross
between black pudding and brine sauce
that's fruity sweet and goodness and all
of those this is a stretch for my
imagination delicious you trust me
unless you try it it's amazing with a
fulling Christmas pudding a bacon come
on still to come on BBC good foods
podcast with Tom carriage and this is
the ultimate plum and apple cobbler
yes find find on the website smells
amazing they look fantastic I mean it's
like the ultimate like crumble but
crumble dumplings that's it we unquote
just grab the name cover let's call it
crumble dumplings have you ever eaten
any ready-made pods that were any good
because they do sell them in tins is
that too retro do you think no they do
and actually I don't mind them there's a
couple of them that are all right and
one actually we touched on it earlier
the Cartmell guys that are making the
sticky tough I think they make it a
little trade yeah anything good it's a
very very good product and there are
some good everyone's getting a little a
lot better particularly those the
manufacturers that happen to make put it
because everyone's getting much better
at baking at home we've got back to
being good at cooking you know people
are having a go at doing desserts and
people are enjoying it and people are
more likely to have a go at making a
dessert than they are actually I'm gonna
go cooking something a main course
because they go well the main course we
can just have pasta but I've spent this
time making a pudding because you can
get the kids involved you can go fruit
picking you can do it's quite
interactive so the idea of me so those
packet guys or the people that have
pre-made to serve have had
to get better because everyone's getting
better at home with demanding more
asking more and people don't want to
spend 15 quid on a dessert that for the
family and then go actually I could have
made that better meself and the kids
would have enjoyed doing it and it could
have given us something to do on a
Sunday morning you know that was quite
good fun so yeah I think those guys are
having to get a lot better they've had
to raise their game they according to
the nation's cooking skills improve do
you think the nation's cooking cooking
skills have improved that hugely that's
really good news because I'm never quite
sure that people aren't just watching
marvellous things happen on television
but then not doing it at home no but
we'll even listen there what there's
more TV there's more magazines there's
more media all about there's more
podcasts there's more talking about food
there's lots going on that doesn't mean
that that doesn't mean that people are
cooking it of course it means that
there's a higher interest in it there's
more want in it there's more like okay
so if you've got more people in people
watching television and magazines and
whatever that weren't doing it in the
first place even if 10 of them are doing
it that's more people we are getting
better we our love of food is huge it's
driven by consumer and that's only a
good thing because the consumer wants
better we as providers of both media and
television and also restaurants have to
be better because the consumer knows
more and once more which in turn we put
pressure on producers suppliers
supermarkets all it's doing is a big
circle of constantly improving standards
because it's driven by people's want to
be better and eat more food that is a
better quality of history and heritage
understanding where it comes from and
wanting to cook it themselves so that it
starts with the consumer want that we're
providing that we have to be better with
the lens to food being better across
board which means people are cooking
more they understand it more well that's
very good news it's great new I'm glad
and I do talked me into that great I've
got two personal cookery problems which
I'm hoping that you can help me with
okay um my crumble is sometimes a bit
soggy and I thought it thought I've done
everything right and doing quite a thin
layer not not super thick like
school days where it's like 2 inches
thick with no fruit at the bottom and
it's it's a bit kind of wet that might
and then might be because you're doing
it too thin too thin yeah too too thin
because you've got too much moisture
steam coming up from your from your from
from below you need you by the time it's
cooked it's kind of absorbs layer
yeah thick enough to make it and also
when you crumble it together you got to
make sure that you've got it's uneven
you don't want it to be even you're not
rubbing in like sand you meant it to be
quite clumpy yeah you won't squeeze it
together with your hands a little bit so
you get smaller different sizes little
nuggety bit so that when you actually
cook it it is uneven like the surface of
the Moon that bits would be char D and
broken and those are the bit sort of
crisper I know that's what people do
when they're frying chicken if they
really want to fry chicken at home they
make a dusty thing to coat the chicken
in and then clump it up there do you
know a good thing that goes in broken up
cornflakes if you put broken up cords
into that dusting for fried chicken and
you get the kind of clumps the crunches
Babs exactly yeah fantastic however that
we digress from old fashioned puddings
only thicker layer of crumble on your
crumble the other thing is that my
all-time favorite old-fashioned pudding
is this lemon pudding to remember the
one where you it sets to a kind of sauce
at the bottom and a sponge at the top
and you you met you make her a mix
together a kind of sponge mix yeah with
butter and sugar and then you fold the
flour into it and then you beat the egg
yolk in two and then you whisk the egg
white and you fold that through with
some milk and it sets into a layer of
spongy lemon pudding at the top with a
sauce at the bottom and anyway it
doesn't matter with you know or not but
they tell me to cook this in a band Mary
yeah
is that really necessary for baked
puddings or do you think we can get away
without it I think in modern day ovens
you can definitely get away with it
because what happens is those were ovens
when everyone used to have a gas oven at
home like I mean again he's coming back
to us being a little bit older those gas
ovens would have the flame that would
come on at the bottom and they weren't
circulated very well and they were
so to ensure that you have even heat it
was a case of setting it into the
battery into the water that would help
okay help hold it these modern-day ovens
where you just then most of them are
electric sunk into your beautifully
fitted kitchen that you turn you put it
on a fan assisted 150 degrees all of a
sudden you've got very even cookery so I
think you'd definitely be able to get
away with it yeah I'm lower temperature
more even cookery my oven definitely
cooks hotter at the back from the front
I have to turn everything round
maybe I need a better oven way yeah or
you've just got to know it yeah it's not
such a hassle to turn the thing around
you can take a look at it and enjoy
looking at it halfway through anyway
exactly the only problem that would be
souffles or Yorkshire puddings those
messing with them you've probably got
amazing ovens in your kitchens though
haven't you and they like at work rocket
propelled they are yeah work we have
yeah actually at the hand of flowers and
at carriages we have ovens on each
section each section has their own
individual oven which is quite yeah so
it's it's all about precision and
getting it right and then at home I've
got to to electric oh I'm very quite
quite fortunate to and two ovens that
are kind of like set into a loaner
cupboards so pretty much like most
people's houses at home in the
restaurant kitchens do you have those
things that cool things down very
quickly last Chile South Chile's yes we
do they've met an amazing they are
amazing they take up a lot of room in
there really blooming expensive but
they're kind of their environmental
health reasons they're the sort of thing
because you want food to be chilled as
quickly as possible so you got no chance
of any form of nastiness being allowing
to grow any bacteria or anything so it's
a case of when things are cook they go
into blast chillers and their children's
quickly as possible I'd love one in my
kitchen because I think to be waiting
for things to cool down rather to off
honestly but whatever if you think of
the size of a big stand-up fridge times
that by at least three that's what
that's how big you're gonna need it it's
all about the size of my kitchen though
well there you go you don't want a blast
chiller you just want a window to open a
happy moment has arrived Tom when we're
going to eat something delicious and
this is the ultimate plum and apple
cobbler they find and find on the
website
and smells amazing and it's got that
lovely Brown bit around the edge and
then when the crinkles tinfoil you have
our sound effects and the crinkle
crinkle crinkle foil look at that
seal it so they're like baked dumplings
they've got lovely crispy crusty top
they look fantastic I mean it's like the
ultimate like crumble but crumble
dumplings that's it we weren't quite
scrap the name cobbler let's call it
crumbled Oh crumble dumplings in a
purple purple sea of deliciousness and a
purple sea of delicious in a plum and
apple and now we have Jack who's passing
us little balls we get good service
thank you thank you very much the recipe
looks quite easy
the thing that Woodfox me because I've
never made a cobbler is making sure that
I don't make the mixture to the cobbler
mixture to way you've said it's like a
thick batter
I suppose I could follow the recipe for
once in my life good nice but you don't
want that batter too thick but you want
it you want it wet enough that it will
spread a bit is that correct yeah
exactly so when you so when it gets
baked it kind of spreads across the top
of them of the fruit puree or kind of
the fruit mash stuff that you got at the
bottom you just make the fruit thing the
same as you would any other crumble and
then on top of that you you put the the
mixture but it get a little bit soggy
like a soggy wet dough almost that you
just dump on and then as it bakes it
spreads oh that's a bit different from
other things so I'm going to I'm going
to pay attention yeah in fact my sake
crumble was probably going in this
direction I never quite got there that's
it you should have just called it a
cobbler we also have having spoken about
custard and cream and ice cream look
what we've got here we've got
stick-to-your-ribs
clotted cream how about that you clotted
cream fan I love clotted cream I mean
again it's another one of those
Westcountry great stuff I mean it's
beautiful it's just rich it's intense is
fantastic it's got fantastic texture and
it's got so much flavor hasn't it is is
that because it's just been simmered
down and simmer
how long does it take to make clotted
when they bake
so they bet they put the cream into
trays and they put it in the oven and
they just gently heat it until a lot of
the moisture evaporates and it kind of
reduces down in the oven and it's
delicious and we've got some cinnamon in
there as well we've got cinnamon to give
out a little bit of spice but if
cinnamon isn't your thing cardamom could
be quite interesting mace is great
Graham mix spices lovely all of those
sort of spicy flavors I mean it's
delicious I mean from I'm looking at
this I'm looking I think that whole Bowl
might go I've got a bowl looking at me
now here of ultimate fabulousness with a
great lump of clotted cream on my spoon
so once I start that you're not going to
hear anything else from me so I'd like
to say thank you enormous ly Tom that
was fascinating and I'm going to go off
and buy myself some suet and get boiling
some puddings my pleasure why I'm
delicious with that thank you for
listening to today's show you'll find
the recipe and thousands more on BBC
good food comm if you have a minute we'd
love to hear from you on Twitter
Facebook or Instagram at BBC good food
[Music]